# I used these word pairs to test the effectiveness of word embeddings from both a synonym and similarity perspective.

---> SYNONYM testing pairs, containing 75 word pairs

jalkapallo    futis
iloinen       onnellinen
iso           suuri
suuri         valtava
kulkea        liikkua
jääkiekko     lätkä
puhelin       matkapuhelin
valuutta      rahayksikkö
uusi          tuore
printteri     tulostin
lamppu        valaisin
tyyny         pehmuste
internet      netti
sanomalehti   iltapäivälehti
auto          ajoneuvo
kengät        jalkineet
neule         neuletakki
matka         reissu
loma          vapaa
reppu         laukku
ruoka         sapuska
drinkki       juoma
rahapussi     lompakko
lippis        lippalakki
kirja         teos
leffa         elokuva
pöytä         sohvapöytä
hyvä          erinomainen
bändi         yhtye
tavara        tuote
matkapuhelin  puhelin
joukko        ryhmä
wc            kylpyhuone
usa           yhdysvallat
stadion       areena
matematiikka  matikka
koodaus       ohjelmointi
kaappi        lipasto
lapsi         nuori
tarina        kertomus
trendi        suuntaus
jouekkue      tiimi
lämmin        kuuma
osto          kauppa
applikaatio   sovellus
vanha         aikasempi
luku          numero
farkut        housut
juttelu       keskustelu
jeestat       auttaa
varastaa      ryöstää
lyödä         iskeä
huijata       valehdella
informaatio   tieto
ottelu        matsi
harjoitus     treeni
erehdys       virhe
bugi          vika
kone          laite
alushousut    bokserit
neuvo         ohje
koti          asunto
sää           keli
ammatti       työ
hinta         myyntihinta
pakkaus       paketti
johto         hallinto
kaapeli       johto
kisa          kilpailu
luokka        kategoria
laatu         taso

---> SEMANTIC SIMILARITY testing pairs, containing 125 word pairs

matematiikka  fysiikka
jääkiekko     jalkapallo
auto          pakettiauto
lääkäri       kirurgi
paloauto      palomies
tennis        sulkapallo
suomi         ruotsi
ruotsi        tanska
helsinki      oulu
kuningas      kuningatar
eurooppa      eu
poika         tyttö
nainen        mies
moottoripyörä skootteri
sarja         elokuva
kitara        basso
takki         nahkatakki
oulu          jyväskylä
prinssi       prinsessa
pipo          lippalakki
kello         aika
lehti         puu
lehti         sanomalehti
kallio        vuori
valtio        maaa
euro          valuutta
kävellä       juosta
istua         seisoa
kissa         koira
kuusi         viisi
kuusi         puu
haarukka      veitsi
patonki       leipä
kuva          video
päivä         ilta
hevonen       tamma
neliö         ympyrä
matematiikka  luonnontiede
ruoka         juoma
lamppu        valo
silmä         suu
suu           hammas
hallitus      johto
vesi          meri
osake         osakekauppa
näppäimistö   tietokone
puhelin       liittymä
liittymä      kaitsa
maali         syöttö
maali         väri
lasku         yhtälö
mäki          rinne
lasi          muovi
arvoitus      ratkaisu
kirje         posti
keskustelu    viesti
lasi          muki
kahvi         tee
lyhyt         pitkä
eurooppa      baltia
kruuna        klaava
heinäkuu      kesäkuu
vilja         ohra
lentokone     helikopteri
punainen      sininen
ulkoinen      sisäinen
sauli         niinistö
presidentti   niinistö
lontoo        dublin
amazon        ebay
ferrari       porche
ravintola     kahvila
maa           meri
talvi         kesä
kampaaja      kosmetologi
uusi          vanha
vanha         käytetty
valkoinen     musta
vasara        ruuvimeisseli
syntymä       kuolema
sänky         sohva
yhdysvallat   kanada
nike          adidas
poliisi       roisto
lautanen      muki
muki          lasi
juoda         syödä
viini         sampanja
pelaaja       tuomari
palomies      poliisi
laina         korko
hissi         portaat
vene          laiva
järvi         joki
sairas        terve
kuume         flunssa
historia      tulevaisuus
laulaja       näyttelijä
kostea        kuiva
ongelma       ratkaisu
avain         lukko
taulu         veistos
single        albumi
bändi         orkesteri
rumpali       kitaristi
finnair       lentoyhtiö
opettaja      oppilas
äiti          isä
uuni          mikro
festari       keikka
tuoli         sohva
kahvila       baari
lautapeli     korttipeli
suola         pippuri
akku          paristo
kello         koru
mekko         hame
seteli        kolikko
vaimo         aviomies
hedelmä       marja
rock          pop
jääkaappi     pakastin
mustikka      mansikka
hampurilainen pizza
ilo           suru




